enterprise-self-hosting/getting-started/management.md, before:

# Managing your deployment

### Managing the database

You are responsible for backing up the database regularly. Cobrowse will not do this automatically in any way. See the [MongoDB docs](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/backups/) for recommendations on backup strategies. [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas) can be configured to do this automatically.

### New releases

To be notified when a new release is available (for any deployment type), please subscribe to this repo: [https://github.com/cobrowseio/cobrowse-enterprise-helm](https://github.com/cobrowseio/cobrowse-enterprise-helm).

Changelog notes for all releases are available: [https://github.com/cobrowseio/cobrowse-enterprise-helm/releases](https://github.com/cobrowseio/cobrowse-enterprise-helm/releases). Image updates usually contain security patches.

### Upgrading Cobrowse

**AWS, Azure, GCP and Docker-compose**

The config directory created by our command line utility is a git repo. You can update to the latest version by doing:

```
git pull upstream master
```

One you have done that, you can update your deployment via Terraform or Docker Compose as in the initial deployment.

_Note: We recommend making a database backup before upgrading to new versions_

**Helm**

To upgrade your Helm deployment use:

```
helm repo update 
helm upgrade cobrowse cobrowse-enterprise/cobrowse-enterprise
```

### Dedicated staging instance

We recommend self-hosting a separate staging instance of our software to develop against and also to test new releases before moving to production. Please contact us if you are interested.

{% hint style="success" %}
Any questions at all? Please email us at [hello@cobrowse.io](mailto:hello@cobrowse.io).
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

docs: use npx cobrowse-enterprise upgrade

enterprise-self-hosting/getting-started/management.md, after:

# Managing your deployment

### Managing the database

You are responsible for backing up the database regularly. Cobrowse will not do this automatically in any way. See the [MongoDB docs](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/backups/) for recommendations on backup strategies. [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas) can be configured to do this automatically.

### New releases

To be notified when a new release is available (for any deployment type), please subscribe to this repo: [https://github.com/cobrowseio/cobrowse-enterprise-helm](https://github.com/cobrowseio/cobrowse-enterprise-helm).

Changelog notes for all releases are available: [https://github.com/cobrowseio/cobrowse-enterprise-helm/releases](https://github.com/cobrowseio/cobrowse-enterprise-helm/releases). Image updates usually contain security patches.

### Upgrading Cobrowse

**AWS, Azure, GCP and Docker-compose**

Our command line utility allows you to upgrade your deployment, you can use it like this:

```
npx cobrowse-enterprise upgrade
```

One you have done that, you can update your deployment via Terraform or Docker Compose as in the initial deployment.

_Note: We recommend making a database backup before upgrading to new versions_

**Helm**

To upgrade your Helm deployment use:

```
helm repo update 
helm upgrade cobrowse cobrowse-enterprise/cobrowse-enterprise
```

### Dedicated staging instance

We recommend self-hosting a separate staging instance of our software to develop against and also to test new releases before moving to production. Please contact us if you are interested.

{% hint style="success" %}
Any questions at all? Please email us at [hello@cobrowse.io](mailto:hello@cobrowse.io).
{% endhint %}
